# shanten-algorithm-collection

Shanten Number Calculation Algorithm Collection

This project is a collection for implementing and comparing multiple algorithms to calculate the shanten number (向聴数).
It provides a common interface and test macros to make it easy to implement and verify each algorithm.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This project targets only the general form of hands consisting of n melds and 1 pair.  
> Seven Pairs (Chiitoitsu, 七対子) and Thirteen Orphans (Kokushi Musou, 国士無双) hand types are **excluded**.

For a detailed definition of the shanten number, please refer to [結局のところ，麻雀における向聴数とは数学的かつ構成的にどう定義されるのか？ #数学 - Qiita](https://qiita.com/Cryolite/items/40908d0bce2bac310717).

## Components

### [common](common)

A common library for implementing shanten number calculation algorithms.
Provides traits, types, and test macros required for algorithm implementation.

### [handgen](handgen)

A utility for generating random mahjong hands for benchmarking.
It outputs 10,000 cases each for four types of 14-tile hands (normal, half flush, full flush, thirteen orphans) as text files, where each hand is represented as an array of 14 tile indices (0–33).

### [resources](resources)

This directory stores random hand data (text files) generated by `handgen`.

### [dummy](dummy)

An example implementation of a dummy shanten number calculation algorithm.
Useful as a reference for implementation and test macro usage.

### [algorithms](algorithms)

Contains various implementations of shanten number calculation algorithms.

## Usage

1. To add a new algorithm, first create a directory as a subcrate using the following command:

    ```sh
    cargo new --lib algorithms/your_algorithm
    ```

   Replace `your_algorithm` with the desired subcrate name.
2. Next, implement the `common::ShantenCalculator` trait in your subcrate.
3. For testing, you can use the `common::shanten_tests!` macro to automatically generate test cases.
4. For benchmarking, you can use the `common::shanten_benches!` macro to automatically generate benchmarks.
5. To run the tests for your algorithm, execute the following command:

    ```sh
    cargo +nightly test --package your_algorithm
    ```

   Replace `your_algorithm` with the name of your subcrate.
6. To run the benchmarks for your algorithm, execute the following command:

    ```sh
    cargo +nightly bench --package your_algorithm
    ```

   Replace `your_algorithm` with the name of your subcrate.

### Example Implementation

```rust
#![feature(test)]

extern crate test;

use common::{ShantenCalculator, TileCounts};
use common::{shanten_benches, shanten_tests};

struct YourAlgorithm {}

impl ShantenCalculator for YourAlgorithm {
    fn new() -> Self { YourAlgorithm {} }
    fn calculate_shanten(&self, hand: &TileCounts) -> i8 {
        // Algorithm implementation
        0
    }
}

shanten_tests!(YourAlgorithm);
shanten_benches!(YourAlgorithm);
```

## License

Copyright (c) Apricot S. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the [MIT No Attribution license](LICENSE).
